


Another important trait of function declarations is that declaring them conditionally is non-standardized and varies across different environments. You should never rely on functions being declared conditionally and use function expressions instead.

// Never do this!
// Some browsers will declare `foo` as the one returning 'first',
// while others — returning 'second'

if (true) {
  function foo() {
    return 'first';
  }
}
else {
  function foo() {
    return 'second';
  }
}
foo();

// Instead, use function expressions:
var foo;
if (true) {
  foo = function() {
    return 'first';
  };
}
else {
  foo = function() {
    return 'second';
  };
}
foo();




A function declaration is processed when execution enters the context in which it appears, before any step-by-step code is executed. The function it creates is given a proper name (x in the example above), and that name is put in the scope in which the declaration appears.

Because it's processed before any step-by-step code in the same context, you can do things like this:

x(); // Works even though it's above the declaration
function x() {
    console.log('x');
}
Also because it's not part of the step-by-step execution of the code, you can't put it inside a control structure like try, if, switch, while, etc.

if (someCondition) {
    function foo() {    // <===== INVALID AND WILL FAIL ON
    }                   //        MANY ENGINES
}
Some engines will handle the above even though it's invalid, by rewriting it as a function expression on-the-fly. There's talk of adding a function statement to the next spec (ECMAScript6) to codify that. But with current engines, it will not work reliably; don't do it.


